What is the origin story of the way AI
has changed all our lives in the last
few years? The conversation you're about
to hear is with someone who has seen it
all, someone who has played a really
transformative role herself in what is
happening around us now in the
development of this transformational
technology. She has been called the
godmother of AI, but I think that
doesn't fully cover what she has
contributed herself. And frankly, I
think her work ought to be better known.
She is a scientist, a professor, a tech
CEO, and someone who has seen hardship
in her life. She moved from China to the
United States when she was 15 with
little English and later ran her
parents' dry cleaning business so that
she could help her family stay afloat.
So here's my conversation with Dr. Feay
Lee on the Michelle Hussein show.
Dr. Fa Lee, thank you for coming on the
show. I'd love to start with this
remarkable period for your industry.
It's three years since Chat GPT was
released to the public and since then
there have been new vehicles, new apps,
huge amounts of investment flowing
towards the industry. How does this
moment feel to you?
>> Well, first of all, Michelle, thank you
for inviting me to this show. I'm very
excited.
How does this moment feels to me? It's
um it's a good question because AI is
not new to me. I've been in this field
for um 25 years. It's uh um I live and
breathe it every day since uh the
beginning of my career. Yet, this moment
is still as daunting and uh almost
surreal to me in terms of its
its massive profound impact. It it's uh
um it's genuinely true in my mind. This
is a civilizational technology and it's
surreal personally to me because I'm
part of the group of scientists that
made this happen
>> and clearly I did not expect it'll be
this massive.
>> When was the moment it changed? Because
I know you've talked about the years
when it was like an AI winter. Yeah.
>> And what you're describing now, how the
moment feels extraordinary even to you.
Is it because of the pace of
developments or is it because the world
has woken up to it and therefore turned
the spotlight on people like you? I
think it's inter intertwined, right? But
for me to define this as a
civilizational technology is not about
spotlight. It's not even about how
powerful it is. Is about how many people
it impacts it. At the end of the day,
technology
um the end of technology is its impact
to people. And uh I call it
civilizational moment because everyone
everyone's life, work, well-being,
future will somehow be touched by or
impacted by AI
>> in bad ways as well as good.
>> Well, technology is a double-edged
sword, right? Um yes I think uh both
ways because uh since the dawn of human
civilization we create uh tools we call
technologies and these tools are meant
for in general for doing good things but
along the way we might use it in the
wrong way we might intentionally use it
in the wrong way or we might have
unintended consequences. Yeah. And
strands of this I know will emerge in
different ways over the course of this
conversation. But you said the word
power and I'm struck by the fact that
the power of this technology is in the
hands of a very small number of
companies, most of them American. How
does that sit with you?
>> You're you're right. Um it's uh the
major tech companies
hold so much of the of the um the tech
itself and through their massively
reaching products. Um they are um
impacting our globally our society the
most. Uh I would personally like to see
this technology being u much more
democratized.
I would like to see no matter who builds
or holds the profound impact of this
technology do it in a responsible way.
And I also do believe every individual
um in this era
have and should feel they have the
agency to impact this technology.
>> We'll talk a bit more in a moment I
think about the democratization and how
that might be achieved. But you of
course in terms of companies in this
field, you're part of that because you
are a tech CEO as well as an academic.
In fact, I think your very young
company, little more than a year old, is
reportedly already worth a billion
dollars. Yes,
I I am co-founder CEO of World Wars and
uh we are um a little more than a year
old and we are building the next
frontier of AI which is spatial
intelligence which people don't hear too
much about today because we're all about
large language models but uh yet I
believe spatial intelligence is as
critical uh and complementaryary to
language intelligence
this idea of virtual worlds which which
again we'll dig into but before we do
that I want you to take us back again to
the fact that you've seen the whole
trajectory of this industry you've been
in it for for 25 years I know that your
first academic love was physics
>> yes
>> what was it that
what was it in the life or work of the
physicists you most admire that made you
think beyond that particular field
>> yeah that's a great question I um I grew
up in a in a it's not a small town, but
it's a less well-known city in China.
And I come from a small family, so you
could say life was small in a sense, you
know, a small family, not too big a
city. Um it was in the 80s, my
childhood, which was uh fairly simple
and isolated. You're an only child.
>> I was the only child
>> as was often the way in China under the
one child policy.
>> And my family in general is just small.
>> And physics is almost the opposite. It's
it's vast. It's audacious. It the
imagination is unbounded. You look up in
the sky, you can ponder about the
beginning of the universe. You look at a
piece of um a a snowflake, you can zoom
in into the molecular structure of the
matters. You think about time. You think
about magnetic field. You think about
nuclear. You it it's just it takes my
imagination to places that you can never
be in in in this world. What really
really fundamentally um fascinates me to
this day about physics is asking the
audacious questions. It's not be afraid
of asking the most um boldest
audacious question about our physical
world of our universe of our of where we
come from.
>> But your audacious question I think was
about what is intelligence?
>> Yes. And
I think it's rooted in my physics love
for physics and my training in physics
that I look at um each physicist I
admire look at their audacious question
right from uh New Newton to um Maxwell
to uh Schroinger to uh Einstein my
favorite phys physicist and I wanted to
find my own audacious question and uh
somewhere in the middle of my college my
audacious question shifted from physical
matters to uh intelligence.
Uh what is it? How does it come about?
And most fascinatingly
how do we build intelligent machines?
And that became my quest, my northstar.
And that's a quantum leap because from
machines that were doing calculations
and computations, you're really talking
about machines that learn and that that
are constantly learning.
>> I like you used the uh physics pun, the
quantum leap.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Crossing over into into
ordinary parliament. But I think didn't
you have this light bulb moment where as
you're thinking about intelligence um
you realize that a critical part of that
is our ability to recognize objects in
the world around us. The fact that
around us right now there are multiple
object objects. We know what they are.
>> Yes. the ability to recognize the vast
number of objects, the variability, the
diver
um that humans have about recognizing
objects in the world is foundational and
there is a lot of neuroscience studies
that backs this. So I decided that that
was my first start my PhD uh
dissertation is to uh build machine
algorithms. we at this that point calls
it called it machine learning algorithms
to uh recognize uh as many objects as
possible. I think the key question is
how right how do you teach the machines
and what I found really interesting
about your background is that you are
reading very widely and there are two
key breakthroughs that make your
ultimate breakthrough possible and one
is that you start thinking and learning
about what psychologists and linguists
are saying that is related to your
field. Tell me about both of those.
Well, that's the beauty of doing science
at the forefront because it's new. No
one knows how to do it. Um, as a AI
scientist, the the you know, you you
think about uh you look for possible
answers and it's pretty natural to look
at human brain and human mind and and uh
try to understand um or be inspired by
what humans can do. And one of the
inspiration
um I got in my early days of uh studying
or trying to unlock this visual
intelligence problem is look at how
how our visual semantic space is
structured. The the there are so many
tens and thousands and millions of uh
objects in the world. How are they
organized? Are they organized by
alphabets or are they organized by size
or colors?
>> And you're asking that because in you
have to understand how our brains
organize in order to have something to
teach the computers.
>> That's one way to think about it. And uh
um and I come upon this linguistic uh
work called WordNet. uh word that uh is
a way to organize uh semantic concepts
not visual just semantic uh or words in
a particularly a particular taxonomy uh
>> give me an example
>> an example is in a dictionary an apple
and an appliance are very close together
but in real life an apple and a pair are
much more closer to each other and the
apple and pear
um both belong to fruits whereas an
appliance
um belong to a whole different family of
objects
>> and I I came upon this uh uh taxonomy
called word net that uh describes this
organization of objects and I made a
connection in my head is that uh two
things is very clear. One is that um
this could be the way visual concepts
are organized because apples and pears
are are much more connected than uh
apples and wash machines for example.
But also even more importantly is the
scale is that if you look at the number
of objects are there described by
language, you realize how vast it is,
right? How big it is. And that was a
particular uh epiphany for me is to
recognize the world. Um
we as intelligent animals as humans we
experience the world with massive amount
of data
>> from somehow we process it all.
>> Yeah. Somehow we process it all and also
learn it all
>> and we need to endow machines with that
ability.
>> Hence the big data sets that you needed.
And actually it's worth noting that at
that time I think this is early part of
the century the idea of big data
>> 2006
>> doesn't really exist.
>> No it big data was not this this phrase
does did not even exist and uh nobody
talks about datadriven machine learning
the kind of uh scientific uh data sets
we were playing with were tiny.
>> How tiny? Um for example in uh in images
we were most of the graduate students in
my era were playing with data sets of
four or six or a most 20 um object
classes and each class there were a
couple of hundred examples at most and
that's that's how tiny it is. Whereas
fast forward three years um later after
we created ImageNet, it had 22,000
classes of objects and 15 million uh
annotated images
>> and ImageNet was a huge breakthrough.
It's the reason that you've been called
the godmother of AI. I'd love to
understand more about what it is about
you that enabled you to make these
connections and see things that other
scientists didn't. And one that
immediately comes to mind is that you
acquired English as a second language
after you moved to the United States. Is
there something in that that led to what
you're describing?
Michelle, that's a great question. Um,
I've been asked this question and my
true answer is I don't know. Human
creativity is still such a mystery. You
know, people talk about AI doing
everything and I disagree. there there's
so much about the mystery of human mind
that we don't know. So I can only
conjecture that a combination of my my
interest and my experiences led to this
including
um the the curiosity and the hunger for
audacious problem definition. I I I
find myself I'm not afraid of asking
crazy questions in science.
not afraid of um seeking
solutions that's uh out of box
and maybe my appreciation for uh for for
the linguistic link with the vision
might be accentuated by my own journey
of learning a different language but I
don't know the answer.
>> What was it like coming to the United
States as a teenager? because I think
that's a particularly difficult stage in
life to move and to have to make new
friends even if you weren't battling a
language barrier. That was hard.
That I think um being an immigrant in um
I came to this country um in in America
when I was 15 in New Jersey, Pipony, New
Jersey. Um, none of us, my parents nor I
spoke much English at all. I was young
enough to learn more quickly. It was
very hard for my parents and we were
very very um um we were not financially
very well at all. My parents were doing
cashier jobs and event I was doing
Chinese restaurant jobs. Eventually
uh by the time I enter college um also
um you know my mom's health was not so
good. So um I my family and I decided we
have to run this little dry cleaner shop
in New Jersey to uh to um um just make
make some money to survive. So
>> and you got involved yourself working
>> directly. I I joked today I was the CEO.
I ran the dry cleaner shop for seven
years.
>> From what age?
>> Uh I was 18, 19 to the middle of my
graduate school.
>> So all the way all the way through
college and graduate school.
>> Seven years.
>> Even when you're at a distance, you're
running your parents dry cleaning
business.
>> Yes. Because I was the one who speak
English. So I take all the customer
phone calls. I deal with the billing. I
deal with all the, you know, all the
inspections, all the the uh the
business.
What did it teach you? Resilience.
I think it as a scientist you have to be
resilient because science is a nonlinear
journey. It's uh nobody has
one conjecture and all the solutions in
front of you. All of a sudden you have
to go through such a uh challenge to
arrive and find an answer. And uh as an
immigrant you learn to be resilient.
Were your parents pushing you because
they clearly wanted a better life for
you? That's why they left China for the
United States. So, how much of this was
coming from them and how much from from
your own sense of responsibility to
them?
>> Yeah, actually that's a great question.
To their credit, they did not push me
much. They're not tiger parents in
today's language. I think part of it is
they're just trying to survive, to be
honest. And uh they uh especially my
mom, she is an intellectual at heart.
She loves reading. But um but the
combination of a tough
survival driven immigration life plus
her her her health issues, she was not
pushing me at all. She um I think I I
don't know as a teenager
I kind of had no choice. I either have
to make it or not make it. and the the
stakes are pretty high. So I was pretty
self-motivated and also one of the um
lucky thing I have is that
I I was just curious. I was always a
curious kid and and my curiosity had an
outlet which was science
and that really grounded me. I wasn't
curious about nightclubs or or other
things. I was I was a avid lover of
science
>> but also an avid reader that from your
early childhood you're putting away the
children's books and turning towards the
the classics
>> books my mom liked reading
>> and she probably thought that you're
talking about when I was nine 10 at that
time she probably did have an influence
more influence she she thought I was
precocious enough that uh that uh just
read some grown-up books.
>> You also had a teacher who was really
important in your life. Tell me about
him.
>> I excelled in math and I liked math and
I befriended
um the head teacher Mr. Bob Sabella and
the math teacher. We became friends
through the mutual love of science
fiction reading and um
>> which you'd read in Chinese
>> which at that time I was reading in
Chinese eventually I started reading in
English but he um he he
he's a remarkable person because he
probably saw in me this this um desire
to learn. So he went out of his way to
create opportunity for me to continue to
excel in math. I remembered I uh placed
out of the the the highest uh curriculum
of math and so there was no more courses
for me. He would use his lunch hours to
create a one-on-one class for me to to
do. and and now that I'm a grown-up, I
know he was not paid extra.
He was not waiting to be winning any
prize to do that. It was really out of a
teacher's love and and sense of
responsibility
and he really became
um such a important person in my life.
He and his family.
>> Is he still alive? Mr. Sabella.
>> Mr. Isabella passed away when I was um
when I was grown up, when I was a uh
assistant professor at Stanford. But his
family, his his two sons, his wife, and
I I think they're my New Jersey family
at this point. You use the word love
about what he did for you. And I I I
wonder if they also he and his family
introduced you to American society. that
that were they your first friends and an
and an entrance to the whole world of
America beyond your school?
>> Absolutely. They were they were my they
they introduced me to the quintessential
middle class um American family, but
they live in the suburban house. They
have two lovely kids. Of course, they're
all married and have uh have the grand
uh children generation now. Um but it
was a great window for me to to know the
society to be grounded to have friends
and and and have a teacher who cared.
>> Do you think you could have had the
career that you have had in China
because now there are like significant
advances happening in AI in China.
I don't think I'm able to answer this
question because I think life is so
serendipitous right the journey would be
very different um and uh you know in a
way um we could have simulated all
possibilities um but what is timeless or
or uh
or what is invariant for for anyone is
the sense of curiosity
the the pursuit of northstars. So, if I
were me, I will still be doing AI
somehow, I believe.
>> Do you still feel connected to China?
>> Uh, it's part of my heritage. I I'm also
you know
I I feel very lucky that my career has
been in America higher education and
then Silicon Valley then as also in and
out of industry and and being in tech.
The combination of all these ingredients
is very global. It feels very global. Um
the the the
environment my family right now is in
which is uh Stanford uh San Francisco
Silicon Valley is very very uh
international. So I feel very connected
and the the discipline I'm in which is
AI is so horizontal. It touches people
everywhere that I do feel much more like
a uh global citizen at this point.
>> Yeah. And of course it is a global
industry but there are some really
striking advances in China not least the
number of patents and the number of AI
public papers coming out the deepseek
moment earlier this year. As you look
ahead in this century do you think China
will catch up with the US in the way
that it has in other fields like
manufacturing?
>> I do think China is a powerhouse in AI.
I think US is I think in this uh in this
moment uh most people would recognize uh
the two leading countries in AI are
China and US. I think UK is also a very
uh uh a very um um
powerful player in in in AI. I do travel
around the globe. Um I think the the
excitement, the energy and also frankly
the ambition of many regions and many
countries in the world of wanting to
have a uh a role in AI, wanting to uh
catch up or even come ahead in certain
areas AI that is pretty universal.
>> Yeah. And your own next frontier spatial
intelligence. Tell me what you mean when
you use the word spatial intelligence.
What are you working on right now?
>> Yeah, so spatial intelligence is um
is the ability
for
AI or frankly any intelligence to
understand, perceive, reason and
interact and also create uh spaces,
worlds. Um it comes from a continuation
of visual intelligence. As I said my
career started in visual intelligence
and the first the first part of my
career first half of my career around
the image that time was trying to solve
the fundamental problem of just
understanding what we are seeing and
that was a very important problem
but it's not enough because that's a
very passive act is just receiving
information and being able to understand
this is a cup this is a beautiful 80.
This is a microphone. But if you look at
evolution, you look at um uh human
intelligence, perception is profoundly
linked to action. We see because we
move. We move because therefore we need
to see better. And that connection, how
do you create that connection has a lot
to do with space because you need to see
the 3D space. You need to understand how
things move. You need to understand when
I touch this cup, how do I
mathematically organize my fingers so
that it creates a a space that would
allow me to grab this cup? All this
intricacy is center around this
capability of spatial intelligence. And
I've looked on your website and I've
seen where you the the preview that
you've released, Marble. You can see
essentially a virtual world which one
goes into and from room to room and one
door opens and you go from one place to
another. But I'm not sure how you use
it. Is it essentially to you a tool for
training AI? It's a different way to
train AI rather than for example meta
saying this is in the metaverse this is
a world you can go into and spend time
in as a human being
>> right so let's just be clear with the
definition marble is a frontier model
it's a frontier world model what it does
is not just to see and go into a world
what what's really remarkable is it
generates a 3D world at a simple prompt
A prompt could be, "Give me a
modernlooking kitchen." Or the prompt
could be, "Here's a picture of a
modern-looking kitchen. Make it a 3D
world." It could even be, "Here's a
couple of pictures of a modern-looking
kitchen.
Make sure they be, you know, create a
coherent model uh modern looking kitchen
for me." And you might ask why. There
are actually many, many use cases. Uh
first of all, the ability to create a a
a
3D world is a fundamental ability. It's
fundamental to humans and it's I hope
one day it's fundamental to AI. Second,
if you are a um designer or architect,
you can use this 3D world to ideulate,
to design. If you are a game developer,
you can use it because it's 3D to create
a lot of games. Right now, it's very
painful to to obtain these 3D worlds so
that you can design games. If you are a
VFX uh um producer or or artist, you can
use that to create movies. If you want
to do robotic simulation, these worlds
will become very useful as training data
for robots or or uh evaluation data. If
you want to create immersive uh
educational experiences in AR, VR, uh
this this model would help you to do
that. So, it actually has incredibly
horizontal use.
>> Interesting. I'm imagining girls in
Afghanistan, maybe you could do virtual
classrooms. Yes. in a in a very
challenged place.
>> Yes. Or or I'm imagining for example,
how do you explain to a 80-year-old
what is a cell?
>> One day we'll create a world that's
inside of a cell,
>> human body, cell of a human body
>> or any cell, right? And then the student
can walk into that cell and understand
the the the nucleus, the the the the
enzymes, the the membranes, the the so
you can use this for so many um
possibilities.
>> Okay. So that's your next frontier. Can
we and I'm conscious yours is a very big
complex industry but there are some
immediate pressing issues and I wonder
if I could put a selection of those to
you
>> for you to give us an instinctive or
even a nutshell response you know on how
you see them
>> for example and you'll have heard this
many times before number one is AI going
to destroy jobs large numbers of jobs
>> technologies
do change the landscape Cape of labor. A
technology as impactful and profound as
AI will have a profound impact in jobs
>> which is happening already
>> which is Salesforce said 50% of their
customer support roles are going to go
because of AI
>> right and software engineering contact
centers you know uh anal analyst jobs.
So it will there's no question about it.
>> It's not going to create as many jobs in
its place is it? I I wonder if that
worries you.
>> I think the jury is still out there.
Every time humanity has created a more
advanced technology, you know, for
example, steam engine, electricity, PC,
we have cars, you know, we have gone
through um difficult times, but we also
have gone through
rellandscaping of jobs. So only talking
about the number bigger or smaller
doesn't do justice. We need to look at
this in a much more nuanced way and
really think about how to respond to
this change. You know there is the
individual level responsibility. You got
to learn, you got to upskill yourself
but there is also uh uh company level
responsibility. There is also societal
level responsibility. So this is a big
big question. Number two is an even
bigger question. If you take those
headphones, I want to play you the voice
and a view on the existential question
about whether human beings are going to
be replaced by AI. And this is a voice
you'll know, Professor Jeffrey Hinton,
whose work has overlapped with yours and
who is a Nobel laureate as well.
>> When AI gets super intelligent, it might
just replace us. How do we prevent it
taking over? Even if we all the
countries collaborate, what do you do?
And I think at present all the big
companies and governments have the wrong
model. Their basic model is I'm the CEO
and this super intelligent AI is the
extremely smart executive assistant. I'm
the boss. It's not going to be like that
when it's smarter than us and more
powerful than us.
>> What do you think of that? Because
Professor Hinton thinks there's a 10 to
20% chance that AI leads to human
extinction.
So first of all um professor Hinton or I
call him Jeff because I have known him
for 25 years since I was first year
graduate student. He's someone I admire
and studied his uh technical papers. But
this thing about replacing human race I
actually do um
respectfully disagree. Not in the sense
that it'll never happen. It's in the
sense that
if human race became
really being trouble
in my opinion that's a result of humans
doing wrong things not machines doing
wrong things. But the very practical
point that he put in that clip is where
he says how do we prevent the super
intelligent creation taking over at the
point that it becomes more intelligent
than us. We have no model for that. Now
if that creation that is more
intelligent than us says turn off human
beings life support or do something else
that is existential how would we stop
it? So I think this question has made an
assumption which is from today which we
don't have such a machine super
intelligent machine yet to the day that
that thing is created that humanity has
done nothing to prevent that day to
arrive. Just assume that day would come.
I don't even necessarily think it it it
might. I that's a probability. But
that's a that's a fair question or at
least scientifically it's interesting to
conjecture that. But let's just assume
that's the right conjecture is going to
come. We still have a distance. We still
have a journey to take from today to
that day. And my question is why would
humanity as a whole allow this to
happen? Where is our collective
uh responsibility? Where's our
governance
>> or regulation? Yes.
>> Which is why I wonder then do you think
there is a way to make sure that there
is an upper limit to super intelligence?
>> I think there is a way to make sure
there is a responsible development and
usage of technology
>> internationally agreed like at the
government level. Is it a treaty? Is it
just companies agreeing to behave in a
certain way?
>> You're right. The field is so naent that
we don't yet have the level of
international treaties. we don't yet
have the level of global consent. I
think we have global awareness and I do
want to say that um we shouldn't over
click on the only one possible u uh
consequences or negative consequences of
AI. This technology is powerful. It
might have other negative consequences.
It also has a ton of benevolent
uh applications for humanity. We we need
to look at this holistically.
>> Do you get frustrated by some of the
questions then? And because I know you
talk to politicians, people with
political power a lot. You've done that
in the US. You've done that in the UK
and in France and elsewhere. What's the
most common question they ask you that
you find frustrating?
>> I wouldn't use the word frustrating. I
would use the word concerned because I
think our public discourse of AI need to
move from the very simple question of
what do we do when machine overlord is
here. So I I don't get frustrated. I get
concerned if the only way to ask this
question is this very uh simple binary
do you want it or not want it. Another
question I get asked a lot possibly more
than this question is question from
parents is that worldwide parents ask me
AI is coming
how do I advise my kids what's the
future of my kids what should they do
should they study computer science
should are are are they going to have
jobs and
>> so answer it then people listening to
this are probably thinking exactly the
same what do you Okay, I say that
AI is a very powerful technology
and I'm a mother. The most important
thing we should
empower our kids is to empower them as
humans with agency, with dignity, with
the desire to learn.
And there are timeless values of of
humanity, you know, be be an honest
person, be a hardworking person, be be
creative, be critical,
>> worry about what they'll study.
>> Uh worry is not the right word. be
totally informed and understand that
your children's future is going to be
living the world of AI technology and
depending on their interest, their
passion, their personality, their
circumstance, prepare them in that in
that future. Worry doesn't doesn't solve
the problem.
Uh, I've got another industry question
which is about the huge sums of money
that are flowing into again not that
many companies like yours and whether
this might be a bubble, whether this
might be like a dot bubble where it
turns out that some of these companies
are overvalued.
>> First of all, um, my company is still a
startup. when we're talking about huge
amount of money, we really look at the
big techs. Um
AI is still a nent technology and uh and
from a development point of view,
there's still a lot to be developed. The
science is very hard. It takes a lot to
to to make scientific and technological
breakthroughs. This is why resourcing
these efforts are still important.
The other side of this this is that is
the market are we going to see the
payoff from the market. Uh by and large
I do believe that um the applications of
AI is so massive whether we're talking
about software engineering to creativity
to uh health care to education to
financial services that I think um we're
going to continue to see an expansion of
the the
market of AI. Um I look at it as there
are so many human needs both in terms of
well-being as well as in terms of
productivity that can be helped by AI as
an assistant as a collaborator and that
part I do believe strongly that that
this is an expanding market. Um, but
what does it cost in terms of power and
therefore energy and therefore climate?
There's a prominent AI entrepreneur, you
probably know, Jerry Kaplan, who said
that we could be heading for a new
ecological disaster because of the
amount of energy consumed by the vast
data centers that we're going to need in
growing numbers.
This is an interesting question. I do
think that uh in order to train large
models, we're seeing uh more and more
need for power or energy. Uh but but it
never nobody says these data centers
must be powered by fossil fuel for
example. Our innovation on the energy
side will be part of this innovation
cycle. Right.
>> I think it's just because the amount of
power they need is so enormous. It's
hard to see it coming from renewable
energy alone.
I think right now this is true. But I
also know that as for example I visit
Middle East there's a lot of effort in
building renewable energy for big data
centers. I do think that uh countries
need to that need to build these uh big
data centers need to also examine its uh
energy uh uh policy and industry. This
is an opportunity for us to invest and
develop more renewable energy.
>> What worries you about your industry?
Because you're painting a very positive
picture and you've been at the forefront
of this and you see much more potential.
So, I understand where you're coming
from. But in your quieter moments,
>> I'm not a tech utopian, nor am I a do uh
uh dystopian. I I think I'm actually the
boring middle. The boring middle wants
to apply a much more pragmatic and
scientific lens to this. Um so what
worries me? Um of course any tool in the
hands of the wrong
mindset or wrong intention would worry
me. this, you know, like we said that
since the dawn of human civilization, if
fire was such a critical invention for
our species, yet using fire to harm
people would be is is massively bad. So,
so any wrong use of AI worries me. Um,
the wrong way to communicate with the
public worries me because I do feel
there's a lot of anxiety in different
parts of the world. The one worry I have
is our teachers, especially our K12
teachers.
These people and my own personal
experience tells me they're the backbone
of our society. They are so critical for
educating our future generation. Are we
um having the right communication with
them? Are we bringing them along? Are
our teachers using AI tools to
superpower their profession? Are they um
are they passing that or or helping our
children to use AI? This is the
Bloomberg weekend interview and so we're
always interested in people's lives as
well as their work. And I realized that
your life, the life that you're living
today is so different from the way that
you grew up, working in your parents'
dry cleaner, keeping it a lot of laundry
at home. So,
>> um, are you conscious of the power that
you have as a leader in this industry of
our time and the future?
>> It's an interesting question, Michelle.
Um,
I'm conscious of my responsibility
I understand I'm
I'm one of the people who brought this
technology to our world. I understand
that I'm so privileged to be working at
the um you know one of the best
universities in the world uh educating
the the tomorrow's leaders and doing the
cutting edge research. I'm conscious of
myself being an entrepreneur and a CEO
of one of the most exciting startups in
in the Gen AI world. So everything I do
has a consequence and and that's a
responsibility I shoulder and I take
that very seriously because
this is what I keep telling people in
the age of AI the agency should be
within humans
the agency is not the machines it's ours
my agency is to create exciting
technology and to use it responsibly.
>> And the humans in your life, your
children, what do you not let them do
with AI or with their devices or on the
internet?
Not only my own children, anyone I I'm a
teacher and ed educator.
It's it's the timeless advice of don't
do stupid things with with your tools.
You have to think about why you're using
the tool and how you're using it. It
could be as um simple as don't be lazy
just because there is AI, right? If you
want to understand math, maybe um large
language models can give you the answer,
but that is not the way to learn. ask
the right questions. You could use the
AI tool to prompt the good questions so
that you learn uh because of it. So, so
don't be lazy is one of them. The other
side is don't use it to do bad things.
For example, integrity of information,
right? Um um fake images, fake voices,
fake texts. These are issues of AI as
well as our social mediadriven
communication in in in our society.
>> I think you're sort of calling for
old-fashioned values amid this amid this
world full of new developments and
challenges we couldn't have imagined
even three years ago.
>> Yeah, you can call it oldfashioned, you
can call it timeless. As a educator, as
a m mom, I think there are some human
values that are timeless and we need to
recognize that. Okay. Finally, your
reading because you know from the from
the child who was already reading the
the classics at an early age nowadays,
what what do you read when you're
kicking back at the weekend if that ever
happens?
>> Yeah, honestly, I read a lot of
technical papers these days. It's uh
it's kind of sad. I you know um
you know I I do read um
I also read to my kids. I I have to say
that the my favorite book these days is
Harry Potter because it's such a great
book and I read I bet bad bet I'm
reading to my kid.
>> Well that series is going to keep you
going for quite a long time depending on
which book you're at. Yes. Yeah. So
you're not taking away the children's
books in their lives then?
>> No. Because they live in a totally
different time. They actually are
exposed to information in a completely
different way from my time. My time that
uh you know I I there is like barely TV
right in the 1990s or 80s in China. Now
they have the entire internet. So um I
give them a Kindle.
>> Yeah. And Chinese. Do you speak to them
in Chinese?
>> I speak to them in um not great but I do
speak to them in Chinese and uh and
their father speak to them in Italian.
>> Okay. Citizens of the world as you've
become as well. Dr. Faley, thank you so
much.
>> Thank you, Michelle.